1. Download samples.csv file
	Put into module 4

2. Search up FastQC (Falco). Upload dataset collection Transcriptome. Default parameters. Run tool.

3. Search up fastp. Change default parameters to 'paired collection'. Run Tool.

4. Choose the same sequence to visualize after fastp. Compare these results to the same one after the Falco. How many reads were removed? (97.185204% retention)

5. Search up Hisat2. Change the source for the reference genome to "use a genome from a history". Change is the single or paired-end library to "paired end dataset collection".

6. Search up stringtie. Click on dataset collection (should be Hisat2 aligned reads). Default parameters. Run tool.

7. Search stringtie merge. Drag your stringtie collection into the transcripts spot. Runtool.

8. Search up GFFcompare.
	-takes transcripts and compares them to genome annotation, GTF input for comparison should put in the stringtie merge, click dataset collection button again and add in the promicrosporangia file. Run tool.

9. Search up Featurecounts. Add dataset collection (Hisat2). Change gene annotation file to a 'A GFF/GTF file in your history'. Change does the input have read pairs to 'yes, paired-end and count them as 1 single fragment'. Run tool.

10. Click the eyeball icon located above the collections. Scroll down to where it says "feature counts on dataset__:counts" in the green collections. Click pencil and change the name to "Broth Replicate 1". You can tell it's a broth because the first row in the table says "CO_...".
Change to Broth Replicate 2 and 3, then Plate Replicate 1, 2 and 3.

11. Search up deseq2. Change the box that says 'specify a factor name' to "Growth_Media." Change 'Factor 1' to 'Broth'. Insert the replicate files that show the replicates for the broth by clicking the three dots then selecting Broth Replicate 1, 2 and 3. Change 'Factor 2' to 'Plate.' Insert the replicate files that show the replicates for the birth by clicking three dots then selecting Plate Replicate 1, 2 and 3. Go to advanced options and scroll to the bottom. Select 'use beta priors'. Go to output options.
Select 'output normalised counts.' Run too
⁃ ⁃ Negative # = downregulated. Positive number = upregulated.
⁃ ⁃ Ho:no change in gene expression between broth and plate.
⁃ ⁃ Ha: change in gene expression between broth and plate.


12.Search up "Filter data on any column using simple expressions.' Select the
Deseg? dataset collection. Change 'with the following conditions' to 'c7<0.05'.
Run tool.

13.Search up "Filter data on any column using simple expressions.' Select the
dataset collection just produced by the previous filter (249: Filter on dataset 246).
Change with the following conditions' to 'abs(c3)>1'. Run tool.

14.Open an empty text file. Type GenelD then click tab button on keyboard.
GeneID Base mean log2(FC) StdErr WaldStat P-Value
P-adj

15.Upload and click Paste/fetch data. Copy and Paste the above into the data section. Title
it header. Select tabular. Start.

16. Search up ‘concatenate multiple datasets or collections’ the header file should
automatically appear under the concatenate dataset. Run tool. Download.

17. Search up ‘volcano plot’. Insert the differential gene expression dataset
collection. In FDR, select column 7. In p-value, select column 6. In the log, select
columns 3. In labels column number, select column 1.

18. Open Deseq results with excel. Press Ctrl A to select all the data. Go to Data -> Sort -> Click the up and down arrows next to 'value' and click log2 (FC). Delete all the values between the top 10 and bottom 10 values. Download. Upload into Galaxy.

19. Change the Top10UpandDownFiles to a tabular file.

20. Search up 'Join two datasets side by side on a specific field.' The first file should be the Top10UpandDown. The second file should be the normalized count data. Select 'Yes' to keep the header lines. Run too.

21. Search up 'cut columns' from a table. Change 'cut columns' to 'c8-c14'. Run tool.

22. Search up heatmap2. Under data transformation, select 'Log2(value+1) transform my data. Change the color (if you want).

23. Search up "filter data on any column using simple expressions." Select the promicromonspora.gff file. Under "with the following condition," put 'c3=='CDS'. Run tool.
-removes everything from the gff that is not a coding sequence.

24. Search up "cut columns from the table." Under cut columns, change it to c9.

25. Search 'convert delimiters to TAB'. Select 'semicolons' under where it says "convert all."

26. Search up 'replace text in a specific column.' In 'in column,' select 'column 2.' Under find pattern, put "Parent=" Run tool.
-column 2 has the gene name, column 8 had the gene function

27. Search up 'cut columns from the table.' Under cut columns, put 'c2,c8'. Run tool.

28. Search up 'join two datasets on a specific field'. The first dataset should be the dataset you just cut. The second dataset should be the Top10UpandDown (tabular file). Select 'yes' for keep header lines.


Misc Notes


Filter Step, more before this. 
column 3 and column 9 are interest columns
keep any row with cds in C3
FilterDataOnAnyColumn
File = 2:promicrospora.gff
following condition: c3=='CDS'
Other areas default
-Removes noncoding sequences in file set, gff file = annotation file

Cut columns from table (Program: Cut)
Only retain column 9, so cut other columns

Tool: Convert delimiters to tab
Convert all: semicolons (;)
Splits up the column file into many individual columns

Replace Text
in a specific column: column 2
find pattern : Parent=
Replace: empty/no info/blank

Cut columns
All but column 8 and 2
Cut columns: c2,c8

Join two files
cut dataset (columns 2 and 8)
with
top10upanddown tabular
download this as final table

Files Needed: 

git status
git add module04
git status (check if wanted files turned green)
git commit -m "module04 uploading"
git push