1. Download samples.csv file
	Put into module 4

2. Search up FastQC (Falco). Upload dataset collection Transcriptome. Default parameters. Run tool.

3. Search up fastp. Change default parameters to 'paired collection'. Run Tool.

4. Choose the same sequence to visualize after fastp. Compare these results to the same one after the FastQC. How many reads were removed?

5. Search up Hisat2. Change the source for the reference genome to "use a genome from a history". Change is the single or paired-end library to "paired end dataset collection".

6. Search up stringtie. Click on dataset collection (should be Hisat2 aligned reads). Default parameters. Run tool.

7. Search stringtie merge. Drag your stringtie collection into the transcripts spot. Runtool.

8. Search up GFFcompare.
	-takes transcripts and compares them to genome annotation, GTF input for comparison should put in the stringtie merge, click dataset collection button again and add in the promicrosporangia file. Run tool.

9. Search up Featurecounts. Add dataset collection (Hisat2). Change gene annotation file to a 'A GFF/GTF file in your history'. Change does the input have read pairs to 'yes, paired-end and count them as 1 single fragment'. Run tool.

10. Click the eyeball icon located above the collections. Scroll down to where it says "feature counts on dataset__:counts" in the green collections. Click pencil and change the name to "Broth Replicate 1". You can tell it's a broth because the first row in the table says "CO_...".
Change to Broth Replicate 2 and 3, then Plate Replicate 1, 2 and 3.

11. Search up deseq2. Change the box that says 'specify a factor name'

Filter Step, more before this. 
column 3 and column 9 are interest columns
keep any row with cds in C3
FilterDataOnAnyColumn
File = 2:promicrospora.gff
following condition: c3=='CDS'
Other areas default
-Removes noncoding sequences in file set, gff file = annotation file

Cut columns from table (Program: Cut)
Only retain column 9, so cut other columns

Tool: Convert delimiters to tab
Convert all: semicolons (;)
Splits up the column file into many individual columns

Replace Text
in a specific column: column 2
find pattern : Parent=
Replace: empty/no info/blank

Cut columns
All but column 8 and 2
Cut columns: c2,c8

Join two files
cut dataset (columns 2 and 8)
with
top10upanddown tabular
download this as final table

Files Needed: 

git status
git add module04
git status (check if wanted files turned green)
git commit -m "module04 uploading"
git push